---
layout: post
title: "vocab"
date: 2012-10-01 10:58
comments: true
categories: jargon vocab
---

Business Rule
>A business rule defines or constrains one aspect of your business that is intended to assert business structure or influence the behavior of your business.  Business rules often focus on access control issues, for example, professors are allowed to input and modify the marks of the students taking the seminars they instruct, but not the marks of students in other seminars.[Reading](http://www.agilemodeling.com/artifacts/businessRule.htm)
[Also](http://www.businessrulesgroup.org/first_paper/br01c1.htm) 

Cardinality
>The cardinality of a set is a measure of the "number of elements of the set". For example, the set A = {2, 4, 6} contains 3 elements, and therefore A has a cardinality of 3.

Casting
>Treating one data type as another. Example in ruby (.to_i) and the cast() function in SQL

Canonical
>Simplest or standard form. e.g. A canonical page is the preferred version of a set of pages with highly similar content.

Idempotent
>is the property of certain operations in mathematics and computer science, that they can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application.

Kata
>is a Japanese word describing detailed choreographed patterns of movements practiced either solo or in pairs. The term form is used for the corresponding concept in non-Japanese martial arts in general.

Lazy Evaluation
>it will stop as soon as it finds a true expression.
```ruby Lazy Evaluation
def lazy
	if true
		"this is outputted"
	elsif this
		"it never gets here"
end
```

Levels of Abstraction
>Going up levels of abstraction means removing the details.

Polyglot
>a computer program that is valid in more than one programming language... in the context of a hash it could mean it is able to include a float, a string, an integer.

Recursion
>the process of repeating items in a self-similar way. For instance, when the surfaces of two mirrors are exactly parallel with each other the nested images that occur are a form of infinite recursion.

Referential integrity
>The data in a foreign key needs to match the primary key in some record of the original table. Referential integrity assures there are no broken links between tables. Note that if you delete a record in the original table, for example, you delete one of the customers from the customer table, referential integrity requires that you delete all references to that customer in the order table. (see [:dependent => :destroy](http://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Associations/ClassMethods.html) for rails)

SDK
>software development kit

Tautology
>true by virtue of its logical form alone.

TMTOWTDI
>A.K.A. "Tim Toady". There's More Than One Way To Do It.

Unified Modeling Language (UML)
>a standardized general-purpose modeling language in the field of object-oriented software engineering. 

Use Case 
> a list of steps, typically defining interactions between a role (known in "Unified Modeling Language" as an "actor") and a system, to achieve a goal. The actor can be a human or an external system.

WIP
>work in progress